[Concept Entry] Luau Data Types (#3897)
Codecademy/docs: content/luau/concepts/data-types/data-types.md

---
Title: 'Data Types'

> Description: "Luau Data Types represents the variable's assigned value type."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: "Luau Data Types represents the variables assigned value type."
```

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Game Development'
Tags:
  - 'Booleans'
  - 'Data Types'
  - 'Numbers'
  - 'Strings'

>   - 'Functions'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-lua'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> **Luau** uses Lua 5.1 as its base which means Luau is also a dynamically typed language. The type of data is automatically assigned based on the value. Data types in Luau represent the type of assigned value to the variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Data types** in Luau represent the type of value given to a variable. Luau uses Lua 5.1 as its base meaning- Luau is also a dynamically typed language. So, the type of data is automatically assigned based on the value.
```

## Type Annotation

In `Luau`, the data type does not need to be explicitly defined every time a value is assigned to a variable or a function. However, in some cases, the value must be strictly defined for the program to run as expected.

The colon symbol `:` is used after the name of the variable that is about to be created.

**Variable:**

```luau
local numerator: number = 18
```

**Function:**

```luau
function divide(numerator: number, denominator: number): number
    return numerator/denominator
end
```

## Type Checking

`Luau` provides type checking to offer users direct feedback in case of any error related to the data types. There are three available modes:

- **--!nocheck:** When no check is needed.
- **--!nonstrict:** This is used by default, it will check the data type but will not directly point it out.
- **--!strict:** This should be used when direct feedback on type checking is needed. It shows the error and the line that needs to be changed.

`Mode` should be placed on top of a couple of lines before the program script.

```luau
--!strict

local num: number
num = 8
```

It needs to use the `luau-analyze` command.

> ```script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```
We use shell code block for CLI commands.

luau-analyze starts.luau
```

The command above will return nothing because the `num` variable has `number` as its value. Otherwise, it will show as below when the `num` variable is changed to `"8"`:

> ```script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```
Same here, for output too use ` ```shell `.

---
Title: 'Data Types'

> Description: 'A brief description.'

Reviewer 2: What is this? Add a short description here please

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Game Development'
Tags:
  - 'Booleans'
  - 'Data Types'
  - 'Numbers'
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-luau'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

**Luau** use Lua 5.1 as its base which mean Luau is also dynamically typed language. Type of data is automatically assign based on the value. Data types in Luau represents the type of assigned value to the variable.

## Basic Data Types

> Luau supports eight builtin data types from Lua, which are:
> 
> - `nil` represent the absence of value or different type value from others.
> - `boolean` hold the values of true and false.
> - `number` has numbers as value.
> - `string` which has string inside single or double quotes as value.
> - `function` hold function as its value.
> - `userdata` is used when Luau need to have value in array format.
> - `thread` has thread as its value.
> - `table` represent table.
> 
> Including with those, Luau has `enum` to represent fixed list of items.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Luau supports eight built-in data types from Lua, which are:

- **nil:** Represents the absence of a value or a different type value from others.
- **boolean:** Holds the values true and false.
- **number:** Contains numerical values.
- **string:** Holds strings inside single or double quotes as values.
- **function:** Holds functions as its value.
- **userdata:** Used when Luau needs to have a value in array format.
- **thread:** Contains threads as its value.
- **table:** Represents a table.

In addition to these, Luau has `enum` to represent a fixed list of items.
```

## Type Annotation

> In Luau, we do not need to explicitly define the data type everytime we sign value into a variable or a function. In some cases we just need to define the value type in order to the program can run as expected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In `Luau`, we do not need to explicitly define the data type every time we sign value into a variable or a function. In some cases, we need to define the value type in order for the program to run as expected.
```

> In `Luau`, the data type does not need to be explicitly defined every time the value is assigned to a variable or a function. In some cases, the value must be strictly defined so the program can run as expected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In `Luau`, the data type does not need to be explicitly defined every time a value is assigned to a variable or a function. However, in some cases, the value must be strictly defined for the program to run as expected.
```

> We can use `:` after the name of variable we about to create.

Reviewer 2: Refactor this too. Use of pro nouns like we I him etc are not allowed.

> Variable:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Variable:**
```

> The colon symbol `:` is use after the name of variable that about to create.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The colon symbol `:` is used after the name of the variable that is about to be created.
```

```luau
local numerator: number = 18
```

> Function:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Function:**
```

```luau
function divide(numerator: number, denominator: number): number
    return numerator/denominator
end
```

## Type Checking

> Luau provides type checking for users to have direct feedback when there is any errors related to the data types. There are three modes, which are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Luau` provides type checking for users to have direct feedback when there are any errors related to the data types. There are three modes, which are:
```

> `Luau` provides type checking for users to have direct feedback when there is any error related to the data types. There are three modes, which can be used:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Luau` provides type checking to offer users direct feedback in case of any errors related to data types. There are three available modes:
```

- `--!nocheck` when no check needed.
- `--!nonstrict` is used by default, it will check the data type but will not directly point it out.
- `--!strict` should be used when we need the direct feedback of type checking. It shows the error and which line that need to be changed.

> Mode should be placed on top of a couple lines before the program script.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Mode` should be placed on top of a couple of lines before the program script.
```

> - `--!nocheck` when no check needed.
> - `--!nonstrict` is used by default, it will check the data type but will not directly point it out.
> - `--!strict` should be used when we need the direct feedback of type checking. It shows the error and which line that need to be changed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **--!nocheck:** When no check is needed.
- **--!nonstrict:** This is used by default, it will check the data type but will not directly point it out.
- **--!strict:** This should be used when direct feedback on type checking is needed. It shows the error and the line that needs to be changed.
```

```luau
--!strict

local num: number
num = 8
```

> It need to use `luau-analyze` command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It needs to use the `luau-analyze` command.
```

```script
luau-analyze starts.luau
```

> The command will return nothing cause the num variable is having `number` as its value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The command will return nothing cause the num variable has `number` as its value.
```

> Otherwise, it will shows like be below if num is changed to `"8"`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Otherwise, it will show like be below if num is changed to `"8"`:
```

> The command will return nothing cause the num variable has `number` as its value.
> 
> Otherwise, it will show like below when the num variable is changed to `"8"`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The command above will return nothing because the `num` variable has `number` as its value. Otherwise, it will show as below when the `num` variable is changed to `"8"`:
```
